Added JMeter load test scenario to Autoscale sample - using HttpQueueLength metric (#15)
mspnp/samples: PerformanceEfficiency/AppServiceAutoscalingSample/Readme.md

Assuming there is 1 instance to start with. If the average CPU% across instances is 81 (the CPU% usage of the only instance), autoscale scales out adding a second instance. Then over time the CPU% falls to 60. Autoscale's scale-in rule estimates the final state if it were to scale-in. For example, 60 x 2 (current instance count) = 120 / 1 (final number of instances when scaled down) = 120. So autoscale does not scale-in because it would have to scale-out again immediately. Instead, it skips scaling down. The next time autoscale checks, the CPU continues to fall to 30%. It estimates again - 30 x 2 instance = 60 / 1 instance = 60, which is below the scale-out threshold of 80, so it scales in successfully to 1 instance.

> The duration is set to 5 minutes. This is the amount of time that the Autoscale engine will look back for metrics. So in this case, 5 minutes means that every time autoscale runs, it will query metrics for the past 5 minutes. This allows your metrics to stabilize and avoids reacting to transient spikes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The amount of time that the autoscaler checks for metrics is determined by the the duration, which is set to 5 minutes.  So, every time autoscale runs, it will query metrics for 5 minutes. This way the autoscaler can get stable metrics instead of reacting to transient spikes. 
```

>  The instance limits are:  max 5 instances, min 1 instance. and the cool down setting is set to 5 minutes; the cool down setting is the amount of time to wait after a scale operation before scaling again. In this case, since the cooldown is 5 minutes and a scale operation just occurred, Autoscale will not attempt to scale again until after 5 minutes. This is to allow the metrics to stabilize first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The instance limits are:  max 5 instances, min 1 instance. The cool down setting is set to 5 minutes. This setting is the amount of time to wait after a scale operation before scaling again. This value allows the metrics to stabilize.
```

> In this sample you create an Azure App Service plan which includes an Azure App Service. Then you deploy a basic Asp.Net Core MVC application that you can use to simulate a delayed HttpGet Action. The App Service plan is configured with a basic S1 SKU (1 core, 1.75 GB) to easily create the conditions for the autoscaling scenario. You can deploy the azure resources by publishing the Web Application, but it's recommended to use the provided ARM template since it has a set of custom autoscale rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this sample you will need to create an Azure App Service plan which includes an Azure App Service. Then you deploy a basic Asp.Net Core MVC application that you can use to simulate a delayed HttpGet Action. The App Service plan is configured with a basic S1 SKU (1 core, 1.75 GB) to easily create the conditions for the autoscaling scenario. You can deploy the azure resources by publishing the Web Application, but it's recommended to use the provided ARM template since it has a set of custom autoscale rules.
```

> To simulate the load and stress, you are going to use [the Apache JMeter™ application](https://jmeter.apache.org/). This tool is an open source software, designed to load test Web Applications among other test functions. You will use JMeter to simulate a heavy load on the App Service and analyze the response of the autoscaling engine and the configured rules. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To simulate load and stress test, use [the Apache JMeter™ application](https://jmeter.apache.org/). This tool is an open source software, designed to load test Web Applications and offers other test capabilities. You will use JMeter to simulate a heavy load on the App Service and analyze the response of the autoscaling engine and the configured rules. 
```

#### Autoscale rules

For this scenario, the App Service plan Scale-out custom setting is configured with the following rule combination:

Increase instances by 1 count when the sum of the HttpQueueLength metric > 8
Decrease instances by 1 count when the sum of the HttpQueueLength metric <= 4

> The duration is set to 1 minute. This is amount of time that the Autoscale engine will look back for metrics. So in this case, 1 minute means that every time autoscale runs, it will query metrics for the past minute. The instance limits are:  max 5 instances, min 1 instance (for the deployed AppService Plan SKU you can set it up to 10 instances), and the cool down setting is set to 5 minutes; The cool down setting is the amount of time to wait after a scale operation before scaling again. In this case, since the cooldown is 5 minutes and a scale operation just occurred, Autoscale will not attempt to scale again until after 5 minutes. This is to allow the metrics to stabilize first. These settings may not be valid for a real scenario, but are intentionally set to easily reproduce the autoscale conditions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The amount of time that the autoscaler checks for metrics is determined by the the duration, which is set to 1 minute.  So, every time autoscale runs, it will query metrics for a minute.  
The instance limits are:  max 5 instances, min 1 instance (for the deployed AppService Plan SKU you can set it up to 10 instances), and the cool down setting is set to 5 minutes as the time to wait between scaling operations. This allows the metrics to stabilize. These settings are not valid for a real scenario. They are intentionally set to reproduce the autoscale conditions.
```

> #### HttpQueueLength metric explained

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### HttpQueueLength metric
```

> This metric represents the average number of HTTP requests that had to sit on the queue before being fulfilled. A high or increasing HTTP Queue length is a symptom of a plan under heavy load.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This metric represents the average number of HTTP requests waiting in the queue before being processed. A high or increasing HTTP Queue length is a symptom of a plan under heavy load.
```

> #### SocketOutboundTimeWait explained

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### SocketOutboundTimeWait 
```

> The SocketOutboundTimeWait metric is another networking related metric available for in the App Service custom autoscaling configuration. This metric represents the number of TCP connections in TIME_WAIT state. The reason this metric can affect scalability is that one socket in a TCP connection that is shut down cleanly will stay in the TIME_WAIT state for period of 4 minutes. If many connections are being opened and closed quickly then socket's in TIME_WAIT may begin  to accumulate on a system. There are a finite number of socket connections that can be established at one time and one of the things that limits this number is the number of available local ports. If too many sockets are in TIME_WAIT you will find it difficult to establish new outbound connections and you will need to tune your App Service plan scale out settings and prevent the system reaching the limits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SocketOutboundTimeWait metric is a networking metric available for in the App Service custom autoscaling configuration. This metric represents the number of TCP connections in TIME_WAIT state. This metric can affect scalability because a socket in a TCP connection that is shut down cleanly will stay in the TIME_WAIT state for period of 4 minutes. If many connections are being opened and closed quickly then socket's in TIME_WAIT may begin  to accumulate. There are a finite number of socket connections that can be established at one time and is impacted by the number of available local ports . If too many sockets are in TIME_WAIT you will find it difficult to establish new outbound connections and you will need to tune your App Service plan scale out settings and prevent the system reaching the limits.
```

> #### Downloading and configuring JMeter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Download and configure JMeter
```

> Download JMeter from [this link](https://downloads.apache.org//jmeter/binaries/apache-jmeter-5.3.zip) (Requires Java 8+), and install it in you computer. Once installed, all you need to do is go the /Bin folder and find the JMeter windows batch file (JMeter.bat), as soon as you double click on the .bat file, a command prompt window will popup; this is the command prompt through which JMeter will run. After a second the JMeter UI will popup, this UI is what you are going to use to create a Test Plan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Download JMeter from [this link](https://downloads.apache.org//jmeter/binaries/apache-jmeter-5.3.zip) (Requires Java 8+), and install it in you computer. 
2. Find the JMeter windows batch file (JMeter.bat) in the /Bin folder. Double click the .bat file. A command prompt window will open. JMeter will run on this window. Also, the JMeter UI is shown. You will use this UI to create a Test Plan.
```

> #### Creating a JMeter Test Plan

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Create a JMeter Test Plan
```

> 1) Creating a thread Group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1) Create a thread group
```

>     In the JMeter UI, by default, you will see an empty test plan. Right click on "TestPlan" on the left tree and select "Add", then "Threads", then "Thread Group". Enter a Name for the new thread group. For the "Action to be taken after a sample error" setting, select "Continue".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In the JMeter UI, an empty test plan is created by default. 
    On the left tree, right click **TestPlan** -> **Add** -> **Threads** -> **Thread Group**. Enter a name for the new thread group. From the **Action to be taken after a sample error** setting, select **Continue**.
```

2) Thread properties

>     Enter 700 or a higher number for "Number of Threads", this will simulate a number of users hitting your app service endpoint simultaneously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Number of Threads: 700. This will simulate a number of users hitting your app service endpoint simultaneously.
```

>     The ramp-up period tells JMeter how long it will take to "ramp-up" to the full number of threads chosen, by default is set to 1 second.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Ramp-up period: Default value of 1 second. Determines the time taken  to ramp-up to the full number of threads.
```

>     Loop count setting: you can select a high number of loops, or set it to infinite. If you choose "infinite" you can stop the run with the stop button in the UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Loop count setting: Select a high number of loops or set it to infinite. If you choose infinite, you can stop the run with the stop button in the UI.
```

>     Same user on each iteration setting: When you select this checkbox the cookies that you get in the first response will be used for the following requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Same user on each iteration setting: By checking this box, cookies in the first response are used for the following requests.
```

>     Delay Thread Creation Until Needed: If this option is checked, the ramp-up delay and startup delay are performed before the thread data is created. If not checked, all the data required for the threads is created before starting the execution of a test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Delay Thread Creation Until Needed: By checking this option, the ramp-up delay and startup delay are performed before the thread data is created. If not checked, all the data required for threads is created before starting the execution of a test
```

    
    Specify thread lifetime: Use this setting if you want to schedule and manage the thread's lifetime

> 3) Adding the HTTP sampler

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3) Add the HTTP sampler
```

>     Right click on the Thread Group in the left tree, select "Add", then "Sampler", then "HTTP Request". Enter a name for the HTTP Request and some description in the comments box. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Right-click on the Thread Group in the left tree, select **Add** -> **Sampler** -> **HTTP Request**. Enter a name for the HTTP Request and description in the comments box. 
```

>     Provide the server name of the App Service you are going to load test, for this scenario, enter  "perfstresswebapp.azurewebsites.net" in the "Server Name or IP" box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Provide the server name of the App Service  to load test. For this scenario, enter  "perfstresswebapp.azurewebsites.net" in **Server Name or IP**.
```

>     Enter "/Values" in the Path box, that is the Path of you controller's action that simulates a web application having some delays. In this scenario there are no URL parameters but alternateviley you could add them to the parameters list below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Enter /Values in **Path** as the path of the controller's action that simulates a web application having some delays. In this scenario there are no URL parameters but alternatively you can add them to the parameters list below.
```

>     Keep the other options default (Http Request should be GET).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Keep the other default options (Http Request should be GET).
```

> 4) Adding a View Results Window

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4) Add a View Results window
```

>     Right click on the HTTP Request added to the left tree and select "Add", then "Listener", then "View Results Tree" so once you run the load test it will show you the results in this window.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Right-click the HTTP Request added to the left tree and select **Add** -> **Listener** -> **View Results Tree**. After you run the load test, you can view results in this window.  
```

> 5) Adding a Response Assertion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5) Add a response assertion
```

>     You could also add a response assertion. Right click on the HTTP request on the left tree, select "Add", the "Assertions", then "Response Assertions". In this window you could, for example, add a 200 response assertion. Which will fail the entire test plan if any of the HTTP requests receive a response with a reponse code other than 200. Use the "Patterns to Test" section and click on the "Add" button, just enter 200 and add the row to the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Optional. Right-click the HTTP request on the left tree. Select **Add** -> **Assertions** -> **Response Assertions**. For example, you can add a 200 response assertion. The entire test plan will fail if any of the HTTP requests receive a response with a response code other than 200. Use the patterns to test section and click on the **Add** button, enter 200 and add the row to the list.
```

> 5) Saving the Test Plan

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5) Save the test plan
```

>     Save you test plan in your desired folder. The extension for JMeter is ".jmx". Your test plan is now ready to run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Save the test plan in a folder of your choice. The extension for JMeter is ".jmx". 
    
    Your test plan is now ready to run.
```

#### Deployment instructions

*If you already ran the CPU stress scenario, you can skip steps 1-10 and go to the JMeter running section below*

> #### Run these commands by using the Azure CLI from your computer. You need to run az login to log in to Azure. Make sure that you have a subscription associated with your Azure Account If the CLI can open your default browser, it will do so and load an Azure sign-in page. Otherwise, open a browser page at https://aka.ms/devicelogin and enter the authorization code displayed in your terminal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Run these commands by using the Azure CLI from your computer. You need to run az login to log in to Azure. Make sure that you have a subscription associated with your Azure Account If the CLI can open your default browser, it will do so and load an Azure sign-in page. Otherwise, open a browser page at https://aka.ms/devicelogin and enter the authorization code displayed in your terminal.
```

> 10 - Once the Web App has been successfully published, a browser's window will show up with the web application's home page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10 - After the web application has been successfully published, a browser's window will show up with the application's home page.
```

> #### Running the JMeter Test Plan

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Run the JMeter test plan
```

> You have two ways of running the test plan, one option is to use the GUI, you have buttons for starting, stopping, clearing the results and monitoring you HTTP requests in the results view (you will see green successful requests or red failed ones). However it is best practice to use the CLI mode instead for better performance, leaving the GUI for Test creation and Test debugging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two ways of running the test plan. 
- Use the GUI. You have buttons for starting, stopping, clearing the results and monitoring you HTTP requests in the results view (you will see green successful requests or red failed ones). 
- Recommended. Use the CLI mode instead for better performance, leaving the GUI for Test creation and Test debugging.
```

For load testing using CLI Mode, use this command:

```Azure CLI
   jmeter -n -t [jmx file] -l [results file] -e -o [Path to web report folder]
```

> So, in this case, you will find the test plan's run results on the results file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the test plan results on the results file.
```

Check the [JMeter Best Practices](https://jmeter.apache.org/usermanual/best-practices.html) for more information.

### Autoscale verification

>  - After some time, the number of outbound sockets in wait time is going to increase, go back to the portal, find the App Service called "PerfStressWebApp" in you resource group, and select the setting "Scale Out (App Service Plan)" on the settings Menu on the left.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - After some time, the number of outbound sockets in wait time is going to increase. From the Azure portal, find the App Service named "PerfStressWebApp" in your resource group. Select **Scale Out (App Service Plan)** on the left.
```

> - Select "Run History" in the upper toolbar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Select **Run History** in the top toolbar.
```

> - In the run history view, verify if the number of instances have been increased to two, also you will see the operation called "Autoscale scale up completed" in the autoscale events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the run history view, verify that the number of instances have been increased to 2. There should be an operation named **Autoscale scale up completed** in the autoscale events.
```

> - After the scale up operation has completed, continue watching the autoscale events, and then after the cool period has passed (5 more minutes), the "Autoscale scale down" operation will appear in the list of autoscale events, and the number of instances will decrease to one again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- After the scale up operation has completed, continue watching the autoscale events, and then after the cool period has passed (5 more minutes), the **Autoscale scale down** operation will appear in the list of autoscale events, and the number of instances will decrease to 1.
```

> Alternatively you can query the current number of instances by running this Az CLI command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can query the current number of instances by running this Az CLI command
```

```Azure CLI
   az appservice plan show --name PerfStressWebAppPlan --resource-group [your resource-group-name]
```

The output of this command is a json structure, you should see the number of instances ("capacity": 2) in the "sku" section:

  "sku": {
    "capabilities": null,
    "capacity": 2,
    "family": "S",
    "locations": null,
    "name": "S1",
    "size": "S1",
    "skuCapacity": null,
    "tier": "Standard"
  },

> To learn more about autoscaling, check the [Autoscale best practises](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/platform/autoscale-best-practices)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about autoscaling, see [Autoscale best practises](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/platform/autoscale-best-practices).
```
